Clean up and update ITE-6 (#40)
in-toto/ITE: ITE/6/README.adoc

framework allows users to define custom "predicates" with arbitrary,
context-specific schemas. Several predicate types have been introduced that
cover common cases, and accompanying ITEs have been proposed to define processes
for creating attestation types and updating in-toto layouts to verify them.

[[specification]]
== Specification

NOTE: The
link:https://github.com/in-toto/attestation[in-toto Attestation Framework] is
defined in a stand-alone specification. This ITE presents a high level overview
of the specification, and readers should refer to the latest versions of the
full specification for all details.

An attestation is an authenticated metadata that expresses one or more claims
about software artifacts and the supply chain producing them. This means that as
with traditional in-toto layout and link metadata, attestations are
cryptographically signed and embedded in a signature envelope such as
link:https://github.com/secure-systems-lab/dsse[DSSE].

All attestations have the following general schema:

```json
{
  "_type": "https://in-toto.io/Statement/<VERSION>",
  "subject": [
    {
      "name": "<NAME>",

>       "digest": {"<ALGORITHM>": "<HEX_VALUE>"}

Reviewer: There is some discussion about possibly not using hex in a future version, or for other algorithms (e.g. go module dirsum). Maybe just `<VALUE>`?

    },
    ...
  ],
  "predicateType": "<URI>",
  "predicate": { ... }
}
```

The `_type` field identifies the type of the object, which is unchanged from the
status quo. Old-style links use the value `link`. New-style attestations use the
value `https://in-toto.io/Statement/<VERSION>`, where `<VERSION>` identifies the
major version of the schema. Implementations can support multiple versions
simultaneously by inspecting the `_type`.

The `predicate` field contains the contextual metadata about the `subject` of
the attestation. Predicates are identified by the `predicateType` field, which
in-toto implementations must use to parse the contents of `predicate`.

Several predicate types have been proposed to cover common use cases such as

> link:https://github.com/in-toto/attestation/blob/main/spec/predicates/provenance.md[SLSA Provenance]

Reviewer: Should this switch to "https://slsa.dev/provenance"?

[[motivation]]
== Motivation

> This ITE was developed jointly by the in-toto maintainers and
> link:https://cloud.google.com/binary-authorization[Binary Authorization]. The
> framework aligns with the
> link:https://slsa.dev/attestation-model[SLSA Attestation Model]. The Provenance
> predicate type is the official SLSA recommendation.

Reviewer: Suggested update to make this a bit more accurate. The old sentence about "the provenance predicate" was prior to that definition moving under SLSA.

```suggestion
This ITE was developed jointly by the in-toto maintainers, the
link:https://cloud.google.com/binary-authorization[Binary Authorization]
team, and what later became the
link:https://slsa.dev[SLSA]
team. The framework aligns with the
link:https://slsa.dev/attestation-model[SLSA Attestation Model]
and is officially recommended by SLSA.
```

== Reasoning

The in-toto Attestation Framework specification provides more details and can be
found
link:https://github.com/in-toto/attestation/blob/main/docs/README.md#reasoning[here].

[[backwards-compatibility]]
== Backwards Compatibility

The new framework supports a drop-in replacement for in-toto link metadata,
meaning that the types of claims supported so far can continue to be made. Link
predicates will be supported as a drop-in replacement for old-style links in
in-toto's workflows.

Separately, in-toto implementations should continue to support old-style link
metadata alongside attestations for a transitionary period of time. Implementers
are free to determine the specific duration of this period, but it MUST be
communicated to the in-toto community. For example, in-toto's reference
implementation's timeline of support for old-style links will be discussed in
the official roadmap.

[[security]]
== Security

This ITE does not affect the security of in-toto because:
*   the link attestation type is isomorphic to the existing link schema and can be
    translated freely in both directions.
*   security must be evaluated in the context of each individual attestation

>     type, which is out of scope of this ITE.

Reviewer: These bullets aren't rendering correctly. I think you need a blank line between the paragraph and the list?
